# CS360-Mobile-Architecture-and-Programming
Briefly summarize the requirements and goals of the app you developed. What user needs was this app designed to address?
I developed Inventorio, an inventory management app geared towards businesses. The requirements for the app were it should contain at least 2 databases, and have UI screens to allow a user to log in, see a listing of all inventory, and add, edit, and remove inventory from the database. I envision this app will have role-based permissions and be geared towards a business's inventory management, purchasing, and customers, each with different capabilities.

What screens and features were necessary to support user needs and produce a user-centered UI for the app? How did your UI designs keep users in mind? Why were your designs successful?
To show the user the inventory at-a-glance, I created a table showing all the inventory currently in the database, including the item name, its location in a warehouse, and the quantity. I also included buttons to edit and delete a row of inventory, and a button to add a new inventory item. Additionally, since I didn't want anyone to see the inventory until after they were authenticated, I hid the inventory table behind a login screen which prompts the user to enter the username and password.

How did you approach the process of coding your app? What techniques or strategies did you use? How could those be applied in the future?
I used my knowledge I gained from my other courses, namely software development lifecycle and system analysis and design, to lay out the work for developing this application. I first understood the requirements for the app. I then analyzed these requirements and used them to design a high-level app flow, and conceptualize a simple UI framework for the app. I then started to consider some functions that would be necessary to deliver on the customer requirements. I then started coding the project, using the book and resources I found online for reference when I got stuck.

How did you test to ensure your code was functional? Why is this process important and what did it reveal?
I frequently tested my code to make sure the new changes I made worked properly and met the requirements requested by the client (in this case, the prompt). I used the Android emulated environment included with Android studio to test the app on a virtual phone. I also analyzed some files (namely the database file) with a database reader app to see if the changes my code was making were made accurately. Using this iterative process, I was able to find several bugs and fix them before handing the app over the client (professor, in this case).

Considering the full app design and development process, from initial planning to finalization, where did you have to innovate to overcome a challenge?
The UI design of the application was a particularly challenging area. I have worked on programming for other classes, and was generally able to search for solutions to fix my problems. With UI design, however, it required both knowledge of how UI elements worked, and an eye for design to make sure the layout is user friendly and data is readable. I went through several iterations of different layouts before landing on the layout I submitted.

In what specific component from your mobile app were you particularly successful in demonstrating your knowledge, skills, and experience?
I believe I was successful if showcasing the inventory database, table, and various functions that interact with the database in my app. My app has an add, edit, and delete function, each shown by buttons in the UI. The table showing the inventory is dynamic and read from the database when the user enters the inventory page. The add and edit functions bring the user to a new page to add or change certain elements of the inventory. All-in-all, it was a great opportunity to learn Android development, and I enjoyed the process of making an app!
